0
Visit Monticello
Monticello was the primary plantation of Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States, who began designing and building Monticello at age 26 after inheriting land from his father. Located just outside Charlottesville, Virginia, in the Piedmont region, the plantation was originally 5,000 acres (20 km2), with Jefferson using slaves for extensive cultivation of tobacco and mixed crops, later shifting from tobacco cultivation to wheat in response to changing markets. In 1987 Monticello was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. (Source: Wikipedia)
1
Hug Ms. Kathy
Ms. Kathy is the most awesome dining worker at UVa! She can be found at the entrance to Newcomb Dining Hall swiping IDs with an unceasing smile and a propensity for hugs. Someone give her a raise already. 
2
Pick apples at Carter's Mountain
Come to Carter's Mountain for all the overpriced apples you could possibly want that you can also find at your local grocery store. But it's worth it because you're paying for the romanticizing experience of being an orchard picker for all of three hours. 
3
Volunteer through Madison House
Looking to get involved in the community? Madison House has partnerships with over 160 organizations to provide a diverse network of volunteer opportunities for U.Va. students. Take some time to explore our service networks to find a way to connect with the Charlottesville-Albemarle community. This one is actually worthwhile! (Source: www.madisonhouse.org/become-a-volunteer)
4
Stargaze on the Lawn
Leave the comfort of your cozy rooms and trek to the Lawn to gaze at stars you can see pretty much anywhere else on this hemisphere. Bonus points if the ground is still wet from the last torrential downpour. Remember, it's all for the ~UVa experience~.
5
Tube Down the James River
You get into a tube, and then you ride it down the river.
6
Visit Carr's Hill
Carr's Hill is the home of all of the University's seven presidents. Since it was finished in 1909, Carr’s Hill has welcomed students, faculty members, alumni, community leaders, and guests from around the world, including Presidents of the United States and heads of state from other countries. (Source: http://www.virginia.edu/carrshill/)
7
Relive O'Hill Brunch
Distance makes the heart grow fonder. Surely O'Hill dining is no exception. There's nothing like taking a trip down memory lane only to remember why you hated O'Hill so much in the first place.
8
Ice Skate Downtown
The Main Street Arena located Downtown has public skating sessions. Here you can practice avoiding inexperienced skaters slipping and sliding amok. (Source: http://www.mainstarena.com/public-skating/)
9
Eat at a Food Truck
The real test of endurance at UVa: How long are you willing to wait for five measly dumplings and some cold noodles? People generally will stand outside in the cold for 15+ minutes unless you're one of those people who casually walk out of class a few minutes early to be at the head of the line. Alternatively, you could eat at The Pie Guy, but that's a) a cop out and b) not even a food truck.
10
Make a Poster for a Basketball Game
Prerequisite: Must actually be able to obtain a ticket to a basketball game. Or if you're out of luck, be sure to support UVa's women basketball team! Bonus points awarded if you end up on ESPN.
11
Attend Tom Tom Festival
Tom Tom Founders Festival is a week of music, art, and innovation held in Charlottesville each April that converges hundreds of bands, start-ups, artists, and visionaries with the purpose of celebrating creative founding. It's a real opportunity to launch ventures amidst ideas and parties in one of America’s most beautiful and historic small cities. In 2016, the festival is scheduled for April 11-17. (Source: http://tomtomfest.com/about/)
12
Celebrate Lighting of the Lawn
The time of the year when the Christmas lights on the lawn are first lit. There is a light show that lasts for maybe 15 minutes, but students like to congregate on the Lawn for free food and good ol' fashioned merry revelry for hours beforehand.
13
Play in Mad Bowl
Madison Bowl, usually referred to as "Mad Bowl," is a three acre natural grass field behind Madison Hall along Rugby Road. This field was one of the University's original playing fields. It became famous for the mud slides and huge weekend parties held there during the Easter celebrations of the 1960s and '70s. (Source: http://www.virginia.edu/webmap/popPages/156-MadisonBowl.html)
14
Run the 4th Year 5K
The 4th Year 5K Run/Walk is an event presented every November near the last home football game to provide students with a healthy alternative to the dangers of high-risk drinking. While the race is an opportunity for students to learn about low-risk drinking behavior, it is also a chance for members of the University and Charlottesville communities to come together to publicly demonstrate their commitment to responsible behavior and healthy living. (Source: Facebook)
15
Jam at Fridays After Five
Fridays After Five, presented by Bud Light, continues to be Charlottesville’s favorite live (and FREE) concert series. It is run during the months of April to September and is held from 5:30pm until 8:30pm at the nTelos Wireless Pavilion on the Downtown Mall. (Source: http://www.thenteloswirelesspavilion.com/events-tickets/fridays-after-five-line-up)
16
Appreciate a horse at Foxfield
If you're at Foxfield, odds are you're not exactly there to look at horses. Perhaps this year, you will try to pay attention to the race for a bit before you sink into an intoxicated stupor.
17
Eat at Duck Donuts
Good donuts are hard to come by, especially in Charlottesville. Duck Donuts is probably your best bet. There is also another location in Northern Virginia, but going to that one doesn't count.
18
Witness a Probate
If you live near Rugby, you'll probably hear the probate anyway whether you want to or not.
19
Visit a Pavilion Resident
There are only ten Pavilions on the Lawn, and in each, faculty members reside in the top two floors and teach on the first. (Source: Wikipedia) Pavilions are an essential part of the academic village, a mainstay of Jefferson's vision where, at least in theory, professors and students live and learn together.